# Simpsons-Paradox-Statistics

Simpson's paradox, which goes by several names, is a phenomenon in probability and statistics, in which a trend appears in several different groups of data but disappears or reverses when these groups are combined.
In simple words, Simpson’s Paradox occurs when trends that appear when a dataset is separated into groups reverse when the data are aggregated.

Why Simpson’s Paradox Matters
Simpson’s Paradox is important because it reminds us that the data we are shown is not all the data there is. We can’t be satisfied only with the numbers or a figure, we have to consider the data generation process — the causal model — responsible for the data. Once we understand the mechanism producing the data, we can look for other factors influencing a result that are not on the plot. Thinking causally is not a skill most data scientists are taught, but it’s critical to prevent us from drawing faulty conclusions from numbers. We can use our experience and domain knowledge — or those of experts in the field — in addition to data to make better decisions.

In statistics, an effect that occurs when the marginal association between two categorical variables is qualitatively different from the partial association between the same two variables after controlling for one or more other variables. Simpson’s paradox is important for three critical reasons. First, people often expect statistical relationships to be immutable. They often are not. The relationship between two variables might increase, decrease, or even change direction depending on the set of variables being controlled. Second, Simpson’s paradox is not simply an obscure phenomenon of interest only to a small group of statisticians. Simpson’s paradox is actually one of a large class of association paradoxes. Third, Simpson’s paradox reminds researchers that causal inferences, particularly in nonexperimental studies, can be hazardous. Uncontrolled and even unobserved variables that would eliminate or reverse the association observed between two variables might exist.

As per the dataset: I can conclude that;
Many more females applied to chemistry, which had a lower admissions rate. Therefore, they had an overall lower admission rate. Though, females had higher admission rates conditionally in both physics and chemistry. This is known as Simpson's Paradox.